That data was coming in and I thought it was being
analyzed and we haven't... Oh, you don't have it
for the earlier ones either. So I don't have a good
perspective. I've glanced at it, but in a raw form.
Roughly though, about 40% of our people are going
in and teaching. But that's of those who plan to go
in and teach. Now of those who... Of all of our
graduates, about 40% of them will be teacher
preparation graduates. Of those... it's looking
like maybe 60% of them are going into teaching.
Well, that's kind of bad. It's not bad, and I'm not
sure of that number. Well, I wonder because, you
know, like I said, I'm hearing so many different
versions of, you know, the numbers and because of
teacher shortages, and now what is this going to do
to us, this new, if the whole teacher preparation,
how is that going to affect your department if this
goes into effect, this five-year program and all
that other good stuff? Yeah, that's... That has
really got us in a dither right now. Dean Corrigan
obviously wants it to happen, and every way we turn
it, it looks like it's bad for us. Really? It's bad
for several departments, is it not? I mean, some of
them more so than others. I mean, that's what I'm
hearing from others. I'm sure everyone thinks
that. Well, who is it good for then? And why are we
doing it? It's good if this could come about, if. If
we, in fact, did begin to prepare lead teachers,
teachers who are obviously better prepared than
other schools who are not doing it, and if, and both
of these pieces are absolutely essential, and if
the public schools recognize that and pay this
according, then it would be good. Because we need
research schools who are preparing one level of
teaching, and other types of schools are
preparing another level. Dean Corrigan's
position is that you've got to decide who comes
first, the chicken or the egg, and no one knows. So
what he's decided to do is push to prepare the egg,
and then we'll see if the chicken follows. That's
probably an oversimplification of his position.
It's scary, I think it is. We've gone to a
nine-semester curriculum two years ago, That's
one semester past normal graduation. So it
wouldn't be that hard for us to go another semester
to have a five-year program. But it depends on how
you let us look when we do that. What we're talking
about now is graphically different than what
we've got in place now. I think we'll turn out a
poorer product in our field. I think the product
will be poorer. I know that our master's people
will be poorer. I thought it would not affect us.
Oh, the master's, okay. Because right now you have
a totally separate or different type of master's
program. Our master's program will be this
particular master's, the master of education,
will be EDCI, basically. That makes EDCI program
stronger, but it doesn't do anything for a health
educator. A health educator would be stronger in
pedagogy, but not stronger in health education.
Now, I don't object to that because a lot of our
people do that anyway. A lot of our health
education majors and physical education majors
get a baccalaureate degree with us and then get
their masters in EDCM or Ed Psych or someplace
else. But they make that choice. Under this
system, everybody would do that. And I'm not sure
that's good. Do you still require or do you require
of your student teachers the same as the college
does, a whole semester? Yes, that's correct.
That's pretty much. That's correct. Okay. Any
type of insights or anecdotes or observations and
things that might be, that would not be in any
documents, that are just from your own vantage
point of where you've sat these last few years? I
had trouble with that when I read it the first time
through. Well, I think... One thing that happened
that's in light of what we were just talking about
is when I came here in 1972, We were knee-deep in
something called performance-based teacher
education. Remember that? PBTE. Texas Education
Agency had just decreed that every school, every
college preparation program would have to go to a
PBTE type of program. Now, being a junior faculty
member, I didn't get involved in a lot of the
committee work. And being a first-year junior
faculty member, especially. But I watched my
colleagues just work themselves silly trying to
get all that done. And then about the time they were
almost ready to put in place, suddenly it was gone.
And that is something that I worry about in terms of
9-94. All these personnel that are going into this
planning, and the whole thing could change in the
next legislature just overnight. That's by way of
an antidote, I guess, but I'm not sure. What was the
base, because I wasn't really in education that
much at the time, the performance base, what was
the the major thrust of that movement? Well, the
idea was that you were going to give paramount
attention to the performance. What are your
performance objectives? Okay, yeah. And
everybody was going to have to describe in
performance objectives what attention... Not
necessarily wrong, wasn't it? It wasn't
necessarily a bad idea. But unfortunately, a lot
of the things that are valuable... this is my
opinion, but a lot of people who, a lot of things
that are valuable cannot be reduced to a
performance-based objective. And a lot of it was
performance rather than knowledge-based. It
was, you're talking about, can you do this, can you
do that, and can you perform
that? It's a good idea, and it moved us forward, I
think, in our thinking, in teacher education and
in education in general. But when you When you try
to make the whole world at one way, it's a good case
of trying to make the whole world at one way. Could
you give me a very brief profile of your students as
they come in? And do you have a lot of them that start
in as freshmen? Because overall in the college,
the freshman class is considerably smaller than
what that same class graduates Is that true in your
department? Do you have a lot of transfer ends? We
mimic the college almost verbatim, maybe even
more so. We will have very few intern freshmen.
We're trying to turn that around. We've got about a
half million dollars' worth of scholarships
available, and we would like to use those
scholarship dollars to attract incoming
freshmen. But I don't think we want to be
successful, frankly. This school, you know,
unless it changes drastically, is an
engineering, business, agriculture school. And
90% of the students who come here, initially come
here, to major in one of those fields. And it's
because of their parents, or who knows why, but
they all come for those reasons. And then after
they've been here a while, and demonstrated to
their parents that this is not for me, or
demonstrate to themselves this is not for me. Then
they began to look around at where they really
wanted to be all along. And I think that's probably
true in my field anyway.
Health education and physical education have
never been the prestige academic programs of
choice anyway, though we were in them. I think so,
but I didn't start it. I was going to be a
pharmacist. I was going to be a pharmacist because
I heard they made a lot of money and it was a good job.
But that wasn't at all what I wanted to do. And so I
went for a semester or two in a pre-pharmacy type
program until I finally decided happiness was
equally as important as money. And I think that
happens in our field more than even in education,
but it's happening in education as well. More and
more and more. And has the quality of the student
changed in your department as much as it has in the
overall college? I don't know in the overall
college, but our quality has gone up every year
since I've been here. We get an excellent student,
just an excellent student. One of the things
that's happened, and not since I've been here, but
it's happened to our field, is that we're no longer
the major choice for the athlete. And I'm not sure.
down on athletics. I have an athletic background
of my own. I believe very strongly in that. In
athletics, I think it's important, but that's not
their choice for us. We're not their choice
anymore. We have a number of them, but the
curriculum has become more rigorous over the
years. It's become more academic, less coaching
related, and our student enrollment has, the
quality has gone up consistently. In fact, if you
look at our health education people, they will
compete with anybody on this campus. Anybody on
this campus. A lot of the folks in health education
are in pre-physical therapy, for example. And I
don't know how familiar you are with physical
therapy, but that curriculum is very difficult to
get into. They interview about 30 people for every
one person they take. They tell me that it's even
more difficult to get into physical therapy now
than it is to get into medicine. medicine has
gotten to where it's about a three-to-one
relationship. Is that part of the College of
Medicine? Our health education program serves a
number of those people to get necessary
prerequisites. And then there's five programs in
the state. San Antonio has one, UT at San Antonio.
Galveston has one. TWU in Houston has one, Texas
Tech has one, and UT at Dallas has one. So it's five
programs. And a lot of our folks are going through a
pre-nursing curriculum as well. So we get a
broad-based type of student in health education.
Exercise Tech folks have been very, very high
quality. In fact, we've had two students who've
used that program as a pre-med curriculum. One of
them got her degree in medicine this past time, and
another one is in her second year in med school.
Well, is there anything that you would like to
close this with? Anything in particular? I don't
know, again, what focus this, how I want to use all
this dissertation. Like I said, I have not talked
to anybody in your department, and maybe there's
somebody that I need to talk to other than you've
been here quite a while, and I know... Several
people mentioned Dr. Landis, and if I can't, I know
he's retired now, Ron. That's right, but he's in
town a lot. But I might be able to visit with him. Dr.
Landis would be a good person. There's two faculty
members that would have been here longer than I.
Three, in fact. Okay. One is Linus Dow,
D-O-W-E-L-L, and Jack Chivret. Okay. I
had gone through the videos to pick out ones that
had been, and I had a couple of them. I just, the time
element, I might try to do some by telephone from
San Antonio and just have a tape recorder thing
that catches on because I, physically, I'm
having, now that I have a full-time job. Oh, yeah,
you've got lots to do. But I really appreciate your
time and the interview and your perceptions, and I
hope that you'll let me come back if I have a
question or if I call you.